READ ME FILE part 3

This is the last part, where I worked in the bonus section, which is to create additional output on the same spreadsheet, without success.

The initial script set headers. The declaration of integer and string were done. The many different stock tickers were stored in an array. Loops were used to iteration. To obtain yearly change and percentage calculations the first and the last rows were identified. Conditional formatting was used. Now, those outstanding calculations for the summary requested distributed by tickers was added and did not work.

I created new columns/lines to express what could be a summary or something to express or demonstrate easily the biggest winners and losers of the year as per below. However, my macro has issues and did not work. It crashed excel too.
1)	The words showing the “Greatest % Increase” on the line 2 of the column O
2)	The words showing the “Greatest % Decrease” on the line 3 of the column O
3)	The words showing the “Greatest % Total Volume” on the line 4 of the column O
4)	The ticker symbol of the questions 1, 2, 3, on the respective lines of the column P
5)	The Value of the questions 1,2, 3, on the respective lines of the column Q
6)	The close price of the questions 1, 2, 3, on the respective lines of or the column F



After running this VBA script, the user unfortunately would not be able to obtain in the same spreadsheet one output table summarizing the data distributed by stock ticker symbol. In addition, a focal region with the data Winners and Losers will not show up on the screen including their stock trading volumes as I had envision. The script will continue over and over to next spreadsheet with the same incomplete information. I hope this information can be useful to you. 
As requested, a screen shot for each year of my results running the script on multi-year stock data is provided as PNG files.

This script is dedicated to address the UofT Bootcamp Second Challenge. It was created by a person (author is AM Scaranelo) who never did coding before. The script uses a “plagiarism” of the excellent UofT instructor examples and ideas during class. The author wishes to acknowledge all classmates that helped her on slack with the suggestions. The macro is not perfect, and it may contain errors and bugs. Viewer discretion is advised when running in your machine and it crashed mine.


READ ME FILE part 2

The original xlsx files used to test the VBA script and the Stock Market Data are not going to be uploaded to github as all students and instructors have them.

The VBA script is included as an ‘.xlsm’ file and was tested in the short worksheet A with 100 cases and reproduced to the remaining worksheets B to F. The script can be applied to the big dataset generated by Trilogy Education Services, LLC i.e.  an excel file named ‘Multiple_year_stock_data.xlsx’. The ‘Multiple_year_stock_data.xlsm’ can be uploaded to github/gitlab if required.

What I have demonstrated using the script is the output on the same worksheet containing:
1)	The ticker symbol or the newly created column I
2)	The total stock volume or the newly created column L
3)	The yearly change (y.c.) as estimated monetary units ($) or the product of column F minus Column C distributed by the respective ticker symbol as the newly created column J. This column J is color coded, as red when this y.c. was negative and green when it was positive. The it was neutral or zero, I assigned as green too, or considered as positive in my M&M.
4)	The percent change or the results of item 3 or the newly created column K


I used the columns that were already available on each provided tab with the worksheet:
1)	The ticker symbol or the column A
2)	The volume of stock or the column G
3)	The open price or the column C
4)	The close price or the column F

To make sure that the script acts the same on every sheet, you must make sure that the columns have similar headings. I mean, if you note that the open price from Column C for example is not found in the Column C on the other sheets, I believe that this script will not work well. I would like to receive feedback from this observation from the instructor, as for me it would be intuitively easy to evaluate constructing a pivot table rather that this VBA script, but this is another story.


READ ME FILE part 1

This is one of the homework exercises from the Bootcamp and I am describing in detail what I did.

This homework is named:
# VBA Homework: The VBA of Wall Street.
This was the first read me file.

First, I created a brand-new repository on github named ‘VBA-Challenge’ as requested.

I have elected to initialise a Repository from my Local MackBook.

The steps that I did are reported below:
1.	Created a project folder inside my ut(University of Toronto).
(base) Macintosh:ut anabelscaranelo$ mkdir VBA-Challenge

2.	Initialised the local git repository on my Mac
(base) Macintosh:ut anabelscaranelo$ mkdir VBA-Challenge

	(base) Macintosh:VBA-challenge anabelscaranelo$ git init 
Initialized empty Git repository in /Users/anabelscaranelo/ut/VBA-Challenge/.git/

3.	Then I went to my github.com account and created a repository there to obtain the url and place it on my computer. I have created the repository for the challenges using the git clone on terminal.
(base) Macintosh:VBA-challenge anabelscaranelo$ git clone https://github.com/ascaranelo/VBA-Challenge

4.	 The challenge has a spreadsheet for test that is huge (over 22k lines), so I excluded several lines and make it a test of 100 cases. This was the first commit. I created this file on my computer and push it to git hub repository.
(base) Macintosh:VBA-Challenge anabelscaranelo$ mkdir VBA-Challenge
(base) Macintosh:VBA-Challenge anabelscaranelo$ ls
README.md			alphabetical_testing_short.xlsx

(base) Macintosh:VBA-Challenge anabelscaranelo$ git add alphabetical_testing_short.xlsx
(base) Macintosh:VBA-Challenge anabelscaranelo$ git commit -a
[main cc4e315] first commit EXIT  Please enter the commit message for your changes. Lines starting
 1 file changed, 0 insertions(+), 0 deletions(-)
 create mode 100644 alphabetical_testing_short.xlsx
(base) Macintosh:VBA-Challenge anabelscaranelo$ git push
Enumerating objects: 4, done.
Counting objects: 100% (4/4), done.
Delta compression using up to 16 threads
Compressing objects: 100% (3/3), done.
Writing objects: 100% (3/3), 5.57 MiB | 2.01 MiB/s, done.
Total 3 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0), pack-reused 0
To github.com:ascaranelo/VBA-Challenge.git
   ded5cdb..cc4e315  main -> main

5.	After this initial test file was committed using the command on terminal, I started working on the VBA script. This will be part of the new READ ME file.
